.\" Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\" See Also:
.\"   man mdoc.samples   for a complete listing of options
.\"   man mdoc         for the short list of editing options
.\"   /usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd February 14, 2025
.Dt fileman 1
.Os GNU/Linux
.Sh NAME
.Nm fileman
.Nd A terminal-based file manager with a three-pane navigation interface.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op FILE_NAME/DIRECTORY_NAME
.Op Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is a Bash-based file manager that displays three panels in your terminal:
.Pp
The three panes are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 10 -indent
.It parent
Displays the contents of the parent directory of the current working directory. The current folder is highlighted.
.It current
Lists the files and directories in the current working directory.
.It preview
Provides a preview of the selected entry. If a directory is selected, its contents are displayed. If a text file is selected, a preview is shown with line wrapping. For non-text files, a placeholder message is displayed.
.El
.Pp
Keybindings include:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 16 -indent
.It Up/Down Arrows
Move the selection within the active pane.
.It Left Arrow
Navigate to the parent directory.
.It Right Arrow
Enter the selected directory.
.It 5/6 Keys
Scroll the content preview.
.El
.Pp
Pressing \fBq\fR exits the file manager, and pressing \fBs\fR opens a configuration popup to sort directories based on rules defined in configuration files located in \fB~/.config/fileman\fR.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width 40 -compact
.It Pa ~/.config/fileman
Directory containing configuration files used to define file-sorting rules.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bash 1 ,
.Xr ls 1 ,
.Xr man 1
.Sh AUTHOR
Written by Hrishabh Mittal.
